---
title: VT NAD83 Orthophoto Boundaries - polygons
created: '2020-11-12T13:06:03.767515'
modified: '2020-11-12T13:06:03.767525'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Boundaries
  - Datasetboundarytile_ortho83
  - Isothemebasemap
  - Isothemeboundary
  - Nad83
  - Nodevcgi
  - Ortho83
  - Orthophoto Edges And Tics
  - Orthophotos
  - Subthemescanmaps
  - Subthemetile
  - Topichistoric
  - Vcgi Open Data
groups: []
csv_url: >-
  https://geodata.vermont.gov/datasets/fd8ea10a99954f11bdb85acba4d6db5c_14.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A32145%2C%22wkid%22%3A32145%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
(<a href='http://maps.vcgi.vermont.gov/gisdata/metadata/BoundaryTile_ORTHO83.htm' target='_blank'>Link to Metadata</a>) RF 5000 NAD83 orthophoto edge lines (4000 x 4000 meter grid cells) were generated automatically from the known corner locations (generated by Gary Smith). Corner tics were added by VCGI. Nodes-intersections at the corner of each ortho tile (polygon) was converted into a point data layer. The Arc/Info NEAR command was then used to transfer tic IDs from the ORTHO data layer to this data layer. These points were then converted to tics and appended to this coverage. These corners apply to only to NAD83 orthophotos (digital and hardcopy). The corners of digital orthophotos DO NOT precisely match the older corners/boundaries in the BoundaryTile_ORTHO27 data layer. Corners and boundaries have been shifted on the X-axis (easting) by approximately 135 meters to the west, and 8 meters in the Y-axis (northing) . Please refer to BoundaryTile_ORTHO27 data layer documentation for additional information. The corner tic IDs and IDTIC attributes contain the same numbering scheme used in the BoundaryTile_ORTHO27 coverage (even though corners and boundaries are not the same). These tics can be used to digitize NAD83 orthophotos . The BoundaryTile_ORTHO27 data layer should be used when digitizing from NAD27 orthophotos. The ORTHO data layer should NOT be used for digitizing.
