---
title: >-
  VT Data - LCPC (Lamoille County Planning Commission) Future Land Use Plan -
  Planning Areas
created: '2020-11-12T13:07:20.458361'
modified: '2020-11-12T13:07:20.458368'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Isothemeland
  - Nodelcpc
  - Subthemelanduse
groups: []
csv_url: >-
  https://geodata.vermont.gov/datasets/2b51b2d7832a44c88ef089fd3c8fca96_0.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A3857%2C%22wkid%22%3A102100%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div style='text-align:Left;'><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Working Lands Floodplain</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>This area includes land located outside of Center Areas and within the FEMA mapped 100 year floodplain. Much of this area is used for agriculture due to favorable, alluvial soils and large flat fields which are absent in the more mountainous terrain in other areas of Lamoille County. Provided State Accepted Agricultural Practices (AAPs) are followed, agriculture is an appropriate use of these floodplain areas. Best Management Practices, such as establishing vegetated buffers along streambanks, are strongly encouraged. Some areas have reverted to wetlands or floodplain forests. This vegetation can greatly improve floodwater attenuation and may capture sediment and debris during large flood events, helping to mitigate downstream flood damage and debris jams. </span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Center Areas No Water Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>This area consists of Lamoille County’s traditional village and downtown centers as well as areas identified as nodes for compact and/or mixed use development in local plans. This area includes, but is not limited to, State “Designated Downtowns and Village Centers”. In general, these areas contain the highest densities and greatest diversity of uses found in the County. While local plans may designate zoning districts with varying permitted uses (residential, commercial, etc.), the overall pattern of development within Center Areas is one of mixed uses. All areas within the Center Area shall be considered an “existing settlement” for the purpose of Act 250 review. In recognition of the significant difference in density and diversity of uses enabled by municipal sewage and water infrastructure, this area is divided into the following four distinct Planning Areas on the </span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Future Land Use Map:</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers with Water but without Wastewater Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers with Wastewater but without Water Infrastructure (as of 2015, there are no such Centers in Region)</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers without Wastewater or Water Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='font-style:italic;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Note: The Centers with Wastewater and Water and Centers with Water may include some areas in proximity to municipal sewage and water service that are not currently connected to the system. </span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Center Areas Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>This area consists of Lamoille County’s traditional village and downtown centersas well as areas identified as nodes for compact and/or mixed use development in loca lplans. This area includes, but is not limited to, State “Designated Downtowns and Village Centers”. In general, these areas contain the highest densities and greatest diversity of uses found in the County. While local plans may designate zoning districts with varying permitted uses (residential, commercial, etc.), the overall pattern of development within Center Areas is one of mixed uses. All areas within the Center Area shall be considered an “existing settlement” for the purpose of Act 250 review. In recognition of the significant difference in density and diversity of uses enabled by municipal sewage and water infrastructure, this area is divided into the following four distinct Planning Areas on the </span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Future Land Use Map:</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers with Wastewater and Water Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span style='font-style:italic;'><span>Note: The Centers with Wastewater and Water and Centers with Water may include some areas in proximity to municipal sewage and water service that are not currently connected to the system. </span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Center No Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>This area consists of Lamoille County’s traditional village and downtown centersas well as areas identified as nodes for compact and/or mixed use development in loca lplans. This area includes, but is not limited to, State “Designated Downtowns and Village Centers”. In general, these areas contain the highest densities and greatest diversity of uses found in the County. While local plans may designate zoning districts with varying permitted uses (residential, commercial, etc.), the overall pattern of development within Center Areas is one of mixed uses. All areas within the Center Area shall be considered an “existing settlement” for the purpose of Act 250 review. In recognition of the significant difference in density and diversity of uses enabled by municipal sewage and water infrastructure, this area is divided into the following four distinct Planning Areas on the </span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Future Land Use Map:</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers with Wastewater and Water Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers with Water but without Wastewater Infrastructure</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>- Centers with Wastewater but without Water Infrastructure (as of 2015, there are no such Centers in Region)</span></span></p><p style='font-style:italic;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Note: The Centers with Wastewater and Water and Centers with Water may include some areas in proximity to municipal sewage and water service that are not currently connected to the system.</span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Enterprise</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>The Enterprise Area contains areas designated for special uses that generate significant amounts of activity, such as industrial parks, airport facilities, ski resorts, etc. in municipal plans. While not directly connected to a Center or “existing settlement,” these areas provide much of the Region’s current and potential employment opportunities and are vital to the economic development of the County.</span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Other Conserved Lands</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>The overlays on the Future Land Use Map are for State Forest Land and other Conserved Land. This overlay represents other conserved lands (municipal/private etc..). Conserved lands often have limited uses because of the characteristics being conserved. Development is usually limited or restricted. Since these areas have already been conserved, they are not targeted for future agricultural soils mitigation. However, future conservation easements are encouraged to connect to existing conserved lands to: reduce forest and agricultural fragmentation; provide large blocks of land that better support wildlife connectivity; protect rare, important, and irreplaceable natural and fragile areas; and protect scenic and historic features and resources. Use of recreation on some conserved lands is appropriate and should be encouraged when possible. </span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Rural</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>The BNDHASH data layer depicts Vermont villages, towns, counties, Regional Planning Commissions (RPC), State administrative, and LEPC (Local Emergency Planning Committee) boundaries.It is a mosaic of generally 'best available' boundaries from various data sources (refer to ARC_SRC and SRC_NOTES attributes).  The layer was originally developed from TBHASH, which was the master VGIS town boundary layer prior to the development and release of BNDHASH. BNDHASH replaces TBHASH as well as TB250, TB24, CNTY250, VT250, and RPC250. By integrating village, town, county, RPC, and state boundaries into a single layer, VCGI has assured vertical integration of these boundaries and simplified maintenance. BNDHASH also includes annotation text for town, county, and RPC names. BNDHASH includes the following feature classes:</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>1) VILLAGES = Vermont villages</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>2) TOWNS = Vermont towns</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>3) COUNTIES = Vermont counties</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>4) RPCS = Vermont's Regional Planning Commissions</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>5) ADMIN = State Administrative Boundaries created by Executive Order #7-95 (Oct 1995)</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>6) LEPC = Local Emergency Planning Committee boundaries</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>7) VTBND = Vermont's state boundary</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>The master BNDHASH layer is managed as ESRI geodatabase feature dataset by VCGI.  The dataset stores villages, towns, counties, and RPC boundaries as separate feature classes with a set of topology rules which binds the features. This arrangement assures vertical integration of the various boundaries.  VCGI will update this layer on an annual basis by reviewing records housed in the VT State Archives - Secretary of State's Office. VCGI also welcomes documented information from VGIS users which identify boundary errors.</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>NOTE - VCGI has NOT attempted to create a perfect boundary layer (refer to Completeness_Report). The idea is to maintain an integrated village/town/county/rpc boundary layer which provides for a reasonably accurate representation of these boundaries (refer to ARC_SRC and SRC_NOTES). BNDHASH includes all counties, towns, and villages listed in &quot;Population and Local Government - State of Vermont - 2000&quot; published by the Secretary of State. BNDHASH may include changes endorsed by the Legislature since the publication of this document in 2000 (eg: villages merged with towns). Ultimately the Vermont Secretary of State's Office and the VT Legislature are responsible for maintaining information which accurately describes the location of these boundaries.  BNDHASH should be used for general mapping purposes only.</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>* Users who wish to determine which boundaries are different from the original TBHASH boundaries should refer to the ORIG_ARC field in the BOUNDARY_BNDHASH_LINE (line featue with attributes).  Also, updates to BNDHASH are tracked by version number (ex: 2003A).  The UPDACT field is used to track changes between versions.  The UPDACT field is flushed between versions. </span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span style='font-weight:bold;'><span>Shoreland Regional</span></span><span><span> </span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>The overlay on the Future Land Use Map for the Shoreland Area follows the jurisdiction of the Vermont</span></span><span><span> </span></span><span><span>Shoreland Protection Act (Chapter 49 A of Title 10 §1441</span></span><span style='font-style:italic;'><span>etseq.</span></span><span><span>) administered by the Agency of Natural</span></span><span><span> </span></span><span><span>Resources Department of Environmental Conservation. The Act establishes a state regulation for guiding</span></span><span><span> </span></span><span><span>development within the protected shoreland area 250 feet from the mean water level of all lakes greater than 10</span></span><span><span> </span></span><span><span>acres in size.The intent of the Act is to prevent degradation of water quality inlakes, preserve habitat and natural</span></span><span><span> </span></span><span><span>stability of shorelines, and maintain the economic benefits of lakes and their shorelands. Municipalities may be delegated to administer this Act locally. </span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>State Forest</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>This area contains state forest land in Lamoille County, representing some of the County's largest blocks of unfragmented forests. As noted in the Working Lands Chapter of this Plan, there are numerous, diverse uses of Lamoille County’s forests, including but not limited to active forest management, conservation, wildlife management, recreation, and/or aesthetic preservation. The specific use of any forest should be left to the property owner and/or land manager. However, what unites almost all these uses is that they all rely on large, unfragmented blocks of forestland. Therefore, maintaining unfragmented blocks of forestland is an important objective of this area. </span></span></p><p style='font-weight:bold;margin:0 0 11 0;'><span><span>Working Lands Forest</span></span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span>This area contains some of Lamoille County's  largest blocks of unfragmented forests. As noted in the Working Lands Chapter of this Plan, there are numerous, diverse uses of Lamoille County’s forests, including but not limited to active forest management, conservation, wildlife management, recreation, and/or aesthetic preservation. The specific use of any forest should be left to the property owner and/or land manager. However, what unites almost all these uses is that they all rely on large, unfragmented blocks of forestland. Therefore, maintaining unfragmented blocks of forestland is an important objective of this area. </span></p><p style='margin:0 0 11 0;'><span> For more information on Future Land Use Planning Areas see the Lamoille County Regional Plan at: https://www.lcpcvt.org/vertical/sites/%7B3C01460C-7F49-40F5-B243-0CA7924F23AF%7D/uploads/LCPC_Regional_Plan_as_amended_in_2018.pdf</span></p></div>
