---
title: VT COVID-19 Cases by County
created: '2020-11-12T13:05:33.698565'
modified: '2020-12-04T18:18:10.358990'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Coronavirus
  - Covid 19
  - Epidemiology
  - Isothemehealth
  - Newnessupdated
  - Nodevcgi
  - Subthemestats
  - Vcgi Open Data
  - Vermont
groups: []
csv_url: >-
  https://geodata.vermont.gov/datasets/073171444627458b80e4d2a99aa8e146_0.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A3857%2C%22wkid%22%3A102100%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div>All data are compiled by the Vermont Department of Health, and are preliminary and subject to change. Case information is updated daily by 12:00pm ET. For more information, see the <a href='https://www.healthvermont.gov/response/infectious-disease/2019-novel-coronavirus' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>full VDH COVID-19 page</a>. This open data service is provided on accord with the <a href='https://maps.vcgi.vermont.gov/opendata/lifecycle/VCGI_COVID19_LifeCyclePolicy.pdf' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>COVID-19 Life Cycle Policy</a>. VCGI and the State of VT make no representations of any kind, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use, nor are any such warranties to be implied with respect to the data.</div><div><br /></div><div><span style='font-weight:bold;'>Total Cases</span> (C_Total) and New Daily Cases (C_New) reflect tests at VDH, commercial, and other public health labs. Includes non-Vermont residents who were tested in Vermont (i.e. seeking care in Vermont, visiting Vermont).</div><div><br /></div><div><span style='font-weight:bold;'>Total Deaths </span>(D_Total) reflects persons known to have COVID-19. Death certificate may be pending.</div><div><br /></div><div><span style='font-weight:bold;'>Total Tests </span>(T_Total) reflects total people tested. The people-tested number reflects tests for a current COVID-19 infection. Includes number of people tested in Vermont and Vermont residents tested outside of Vermont, for example, testing conducted in neighboring state’s hospital lab or public health lab. Please note we may not have all the negative results from all reference labs.</div><div><br /></div><div><span style='font-weight:bold;'>County</span> (map_county): People who tested positive for COVID-19 in Vermont while visiting or seeking care are included in the Vermont county where they were identified. Some cases may still be under investigation and county is not yet assigned. In these instances, Pending Validation is used.</div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div>FIELD DESCRIPTIONS----------</div><div>-----CNTY: County Number (U.S. Bureau of the Census)</div><div>-----CNTYNAME: County Name</div><div>-----map_county: County Name</div><div>-----Label: County Label</div><div>-----CNTYGEOID: County Geographic Area Code per <a href='https://vcgi.vermont.gov/document/vt-geographic-area-codes-standard' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>VT Geographic Area Codes Standard</a><br /></div><div>-----Pop2018ACS: County Population per <a href='https://www.healthvermont.gov/health-statistics-vital-records/vital-records-population-data/vermont-population-estimates' rel='nofollow ugc' target='_blank'>VT Department of Health Population Estimates</a></div><div>-----C_Total: Total Cases</div><div>-----D_Total: Total Deaths</div><div>-----C_New: New Daily Cases</div><div>-----C_10k: Total Cases per 10,000 persons</div><div>-----date: date</div><div>-----T_Total: Total Tests</div><div>-----PercentPop_T: Percent of Population Tested</div><div>-----C_0_9: Total Cases in Age Group 0-9 years old</div><div>-----C_10-19: Total Cases in Age Group 10-19 years old</div><div>-----C_20-29: Total Cases in Age Group 20-29 years old</div><div>-----C_30-39: Total Cases in Age Group 30-39 years old</div><div>-----C_40-49: Total Cases in Age Group 40-49 years old</div><div>-----C_50-59: Total Cases in Age Group 50-59 years old</div><div>-----C_60-69: Total Cases in Age Group 60-69 years old</div><div>-----C_70-79: Total Cases in Age Group 70-79 years old</div><div>-----C_80Plus: Total Cases in Age Group 80 plus years old</div><div>-----C_A_Unkn: Total Cases in Age Group Unknown</div><div>-----C_S_Male: Total Cases Sex Male</div><div>-----C_S_Female: Total Cases Sex Female</div><div>-----C_S_Unkn: Total Cases Sex Unknown</div><div><br /></div><div>-----Rec_New: New recoveries. Reflects persons estimated to be recovered of COVID-19 on this date. Recoveries are estimated in two ways: 1) People who have tested positive for COVID-19 report they have recovered to our investigation teams during their follow-up calls. 2) Thirty days or more have passed since the date the person's illness began. (If that information is not available, we use the date the positive test is reported to the Health Department.)</div><div><br /></div><div>-----Rec_Total: Total recoveries. Reflects an estimate of all persons who have tested positive of COVID-19 to be recovered as of this date. Recoveries are estimated in two ways: 1) People who have tested positive for COVID-19 report they have recovered to our investigation teams during their follow-up calls. 2) Thirty days or more have passed since the date the person's illness began. (If that information is not available, we use the date the positive test is reported to the Health Department.)</div><div>----------------------------</div>
